.TH calchom 1 "Computational Tools For Homology of Groups Project"
.SH \fIName
\fBcalchom \-
Calculates homology for a given group for mappings from different dimensions
by using \fIchom\fR (or \fIchom_stats\fR for statistical information) and
running the resulting script through \fImagma\fR.





.SH \fISyntax
.IP "" 15
\fBcalchom\fR [\fI-v\fR] [\fI-s\fR] \fIstart end inputfile\fR [\fIoutputfile\fR]




.SH \fIOptions
.IP -v 15
(Optional) Enters verbose mode.  Extra information is included in the output
file including the number of critical tuples and the invariants of the matrices
in each dimension.
.IP -s 15
(Optional) Enters statistics mode.  Additional statistical information
on the performance of the algorithms is appended to the output.
.IP start 15
the starting dimension (> 1)
.IP end 15
the end dimension (>= start)
.IP inputfile
the groups complete rewriting system file that conforms to the Geometry Group Standard
format (including finite state automata), and in particular should be of the form outputted by
\fIkbeqn\fR or \fIcfsa\fR - that is, we can just use the output from \fIkbeqn\fR as
the input to our program.

.IP outputfile
file for output.  If no file name is given \fIStandard Output\fR is used.



.SH \fIUsage

Given a group and its complete rewriting system including finite state automata (the inputfile),
creates a script for use in \fImagma\fR to calculate Homology of the group
for mappings from different dimensions. This is done by using \fIchom\fR, or
\fIchom_stats\fR if statistical information is required).
The resulting script is passed to \fImagma\fR, and the results are
placed in the outputfile.

This script makes use of two programs, \fIchom\fR (or \fIchom_stats\fR) and
\fImagma\fR.  It should be
run from the machine \fIchom\fR is installed on.  It can handle \fImagma\fR being
on a remote machine provided you have an account on that remote machine.

This script assumes you have both \fIchom\fR and \fImagma\fR on the same machine.
If \fImagma\fR is on a different machine, you should set the environment
variable MAGMA_MACHINE to the full name of the machine \fImagma\fR is on
in your account.
You must also place the full name of the machine running \fIchom\fR into your
.I ".rhosts"
file on the MAGMA_MACHINE

The default locations of \fImagma\fR, \fIchom\fR and \fIchom_stats\fR are
given below:

MAGMA_DEF=/usr/local/bin/magma

CHOM_DEF=/usr/local/public/bin/chom

CHOM_STATS_DEF=/usr/local/public/bin/chom_stats

If these are different for your system, they should be set in this script,
or you
should set the environment variables MAGMA, CHOM or CHOM_STATS to the
correct paths in your account (including file name).


.SH \fIExample

Suppose we have a groups rewriting system in a file "s4.kbeqn".  We are
interested in homology for the mappings from dimension 2 to 1 and 3 to 2,
and we want the output in verbose mode.
We run
\fBcalchom\fR as follows:

        calchom -v 2 3 s4.kbeqn output

The resulting file "output" contains homology calculations for these given
dimensions, resulting from a script passed to \fImagma\fR.


The result may be something along the lines of:

 Calchom: Start: Thursday 06 October 1994 (11:40:56)
 Magma V1.00-2          Thu Oct  6 1994 11:45:38     [Seed = 563894685]
 Homology Calculation Results

 The group 's4.kbeqn' has the following generators:
        a  a^-1  b  b^-1  c  c^-1

 and the following rewriting rules:
        aa > 1
        bb > 1
        cc > 1
        a^-1 > a
        b^-1 > b
        c^-1 > c
        ca > ac
        bab > aba
        cbc > bcb
        cbac > bcba

 Calculating Homology for dimension 2 :
        The torsion-free rank is 0
        The torsion invariants are [ 2 ]

 Calculating Homology for dimension 3 :
        The torsion-free rank is 0
        The torsion invariants are [ 2, 12 ]

 --------------------------------------------------
 The number of critical tuples in each dimension:
        Dimension 1 : 10
        Dimension 2 : 18
        Dimension 3 : 49

 The invariants of the matrices in each dimension:
        Dimension 1 : [ 2 ]
        Dimension 2 : [ 2 ]
        Dimension 3 : [ 2, 12 ]
 --------------------------------------------------

 Total time: 0.240 seconds
 Calchom: End: Thursday 06 October 1994 (11:40:59)


.SH \fIBugs
If a rewriting system is not complete, the program may crash.  This is
because certain tests are \fInot\fR performed in \fIchom\fR to reduce
execution time.

.SH \fISee also
\fIcfsa(1)\fR
\fIkbeqn(1)\fR
\fIkbeqn2(1)\fR
\fIchom(1)\fR
\fIchom_stats(1)\fR

.SH \fIAuthor
Jamie P. Curmi (6/10/94)

for the \fIComputational Tools for Homolgy of Groups\fR Project
