.TH chom 1 "Computational Tools For Homology of Groups Project"
.SH \fIName
\fBchom \-
Creates a script for use in \fImagma\fR to calculate Homology of a group
for mappings from different dimensions.




.SH \fISyntax
.IP "" 15
\fBchom\fR [\fI-v\fR] \fIstart end inputfile\fR [\fIoutputfile\fR]




.SH \fIOptions
.IP -v 15
(Optional) Enters verbose mode.  Extra information is included in the output
file including the number of critical tuples and the invariants of the matrices
in each dimension.
.IP start 15
the starting dimension (> 1) whose matrix we will produce for use in \fImagma\fR.
.IP end 15
the end dimension (>= start) whose matrix we will produce.
.IP inputfile
the groups complete rewriting system file that conforms to the Geometry Group Standard
format (including finite state automata), and in particular should be of the form outputted by
\fIkbeqn\fR or \fIcfsa\fR - that is, we can just use the output from \fIkbeqn\fR as
the input to our program.

.IP outputfile
file for output.  If no file name is given \fIStandard Output\fR is used.



.SH \fIUsage

Given a group and its complete rewriting system including finite state automata (the inputfile),
creates a script for use in \fImagma\fR to calculate Homology of the group
for mappings from different dimensions. The algorithm creates each matrix for calculating
Homology dimension n, by calculating boundaries for critical n\-tuples, and
forming a matrix from these calculations.

Once the outputfile has been created, it is a simple task to run \fImagma\fR
with this file.  See the \fIexample\fR below for details.

The boundary
calculation algorithms used are based on those given by J. R. J. Groves
"Rewriting Systems and Homolgy of Groups" in his research report from
The University of Melbourne, Department of Mathematics, 1990 and original
algorithms by J.R.J.Groves 1993-1994.


.SH \fIExample

Suppose we have a groups rewriting system in a file "grpA.kbeqn".  We are
interested in homology for the mappings from dimension 3 to 2 and 4 to 3,
and we'd like the output in verbose mode.
We run
\fBchom\fR as follows:

        chom -v 2 4 grpA.kbeqn output

The resulting file "output" contains matrices for dimensions 1, 2, 3 and 4,
along with other information in a format ready for use with \fImagma\fR.
\fImagma\fR should give as output homology calculations for dimensions 2,
3 and 4.

We can now run \fImagma\fR, and type:

		load output;

For an example of the resulting output, see \fIcalchom\fR.


.SH \fIBugs
If a rewriting system is not complete, the program may crash.  This is
because certain tests are \fInot\fR performed to reduce execution time.

.SH \fISee also
\fIcfsa(1)\fR
\fIkbeqn(1)\fR
\fIkbeqn2(1)\fR
\fIchom_stats(1)\fR

.SH \fIAuthor
Jamie P. Curmi (6/10/94)

for the \fIComputational Tools for Homolgy of Groups\fR Project
