.TH cmat 1 "Computational Tools For Homology of Groups Project"
.SH \fIName
\fBcmat \-
Creates a matrix for calculating homology dimension n.




.SH \fISyntax
.IP "" 15
\fBcmat\fR \fIn\fR [\fIinputfile\fR]




.SH \fIOptions
.IP n 15
The dimension (> 1) whose matrix we will produce.
.IP inputfile
The groups complete rewriting system file that conforms to the Geometry Group Standard
format (including finite state automata), and in particular should be of the form outputted by
\fIkbeqn\fR or \fIcfsa\fR - that is, we can just use the output from \fIkbeqn\fR as
the input to our program.  If no file name is given \fIStandard Input\fR is used.



.SH \fIUsage

Given a group and its complete rewriting system including finite state automata (the inputfile),
calculates boundaries for critical n\-tuples, and
forms a matrix from these calculations.

The boundary
calculation algorithms used are based on those given by J. R. J. Groves
"Rewriting Systems and Homolgy of Groups" in his research report from
The University of Melbourne, Department of Mathematics, 1990 and original
algorithms by J.R.J.Groves 1993-1994.


.SH \fIExample

Suppose we have a groups rewriting system in a file "grpA.kbeqn".  We are
interested in obtaining the matric for dimension 3.
We run
\fBcmat\fR as follows:

        cmat 3 grpA.kbeqn

Output is to standard output - the result being, say:

        Matrix: rows = 48, cols = 96

Followed by the elements of the matrix.

.SH \fIBugs
If a rewriting system is not complete, the program may crash.  This is
because certain tests are \fInot\fR performed to reduce execution time.

.SH \fISee also
\fIcfsa(1)\fR
\fIkbeqn(1)\fR
\fIkbeqn2(1)\fR
\fIchom(1)\fR

.SH \fIAuthor
Jamie P. Curmi (7/6/94)

for the \fIComputational Tools for Homolgy of Groups\fR Project
